<h1 style="text-align: center;">Project 1 Documentation - Nicholas Murray</h1>

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The motivation for my application was to first allow people to compare the rates of poverty percentage in the country with the percent of people with education less than high school. The second thing that I wanted to provide through my scatterplot was to allow users to be able to compare all of the data with one another. I added in two dropdowns to change what is being compared on both axes. The bar chart was made to allow people to see what counties are higher or lower in all forms of the data. On the y-axis I used the counties themselves as the values and on the x-axis, I let the user choose with the “Y-Axis Values” dropdown.\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The data that I used came from the [US Heart and Stroke Atlas](https://www.cdc.gov/dhdsp/maps/atlas/index.htm). What I did to display the data was connect the national_health_data.csv to a counties.json file. The counties.json file was used to create the choropleth maps that I displayed, and the national_health_data.csv was used to show data on the map and to update the scatter plot and bar chart as the user wanted.\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I did make one initial sketch that I threw away because I had a good idea of what I wanted to do from that point on. If I had to redo this project from the start, I would have made a more detailed initial sketch that would have shown what data I would be showing and how I wanted to display the data. I want to do this next time because a problem that I ran into later on was how I was going to display the data on my bar chart. I knew that I wanted to have one unmounted axis that would not be changed, and then have one that would be updated, but I couldn’t figure out what the best way for a user to understand the data would be.\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The first visualization is a choropleth map that shows the percentage of education less than highschool per county in the United States. When you hover over a county, it will show you the name of the county and the percent of people with education less than highschool. The second visualization is another choropleth that does the same thing, but instead of the data being education less than highschool, it is poverty percentage per county. The next visualization that I included was a scatter plot initialized to poverty percentage on the x-axis and education less than highschool percentage on the y-axis. Although, this is only the initialization of data points; using the dropdowns above the plot, the user can choose to compare whatever data they would like to see. The fourth visualization that I used was a bar chart. This visualization has the counties mounted on the y-axis and an initialization of poverty percentage on the x-axis. The x-axis can be changed using the dropdown above to show the user whatever they would like. I wanted to add in a tooltip that would show the county name and percent when you hovered over a bar, but I ran out of time. With that being said, this visualization is not finished and it is difficult to understand what data you are looking at.\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;My application allows you to compare different data points of counties to each other. The two choropleth maps are used to compare two data points, poverty percentage and education less than highschool. The scatter plot does much more, and allows you to compare any data points that you would like. For example you could compare the number of parks to the air quality in an area. One finding that I arrived at was that Ziebach had a large poverty percentage at 43.9% but only 12.4% of people had no education after highschool. This shows that having an education after high school does not always directly correlate with being in poverty. Another finding that I made was that when you compare poverty percentage to median household income, you get a seemingly logarithmic output, meaning that when there is a county with a lower median household income, the poverty percentage increases significantly and vice versa.\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The process that I went through to make this application was to begin with what I assumed would be the hardest part in the choropleth maps. This ended up not being as difficult as I thought it would be and I ended up spending the least amount of time on this portion of the code. For the choropleth maps, I used topojson.v3 to create the lines and the actual visualization of the map. I then moved onto creating the scatter plot, which was slightly more difficult for me. The library that I used for this visualization was d3.v6.min.js, which was also used for the maps and the bar graph. This library is where all of the d3 functions would come from. I structured my code by having different folders for the css, data, any images (I didn’t end up adding any), and javascript files. I have an index.html to render all of the components that I created, then I have a main.js file that connects the data and passes it to all of the visualization components. I then have javascript files for all of the visualization that I created. I access and run my code through Visual Studio Code using live server and live preview. Live server allows me to view the application in the browser and check any console logs that I have made, and live preview allows me to see real-time changes in VS Code itself. Here is a link to my code in Github, [DataVizPortfolio](https://nickmurray24.github.io/dataviz/index.html)\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;If I had more time there are quite a bit of changes I would make to make my application significantly better. One thing that I really wanted to incorporate was to have the choropleth map as a constructor so that I could pass any data into it. This would have cleaned up my code a bit and would have allowed the user to compare more than just two fixed data points. Another thing that I wanted to do was to add an outline feature to the hovering css for the scatter plot. What I mean by this is that when the user hovers over the different data points, there would be a white outline around the point that you are looking at. I tried to fix this, but it was taking too much of my time and I needed to get other things done first. Another cool feature that I wanted to add was to be able to add a search feature so that the user could look up their specific county and see all of the details about their county. This would have been great especially for the scatter plot because it is virtually impossible to find specific counties within the visualization. The last thing that I really wanted to fix was the bar chart because you can’t take any data from it besides an educated guess/analysis. What I would change is to get rid of that gray bar on the left side of the graph, and to add in axis titles and a details on demand feature so that you can understand what you are looking at.\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Some challenges that I faced with this project were time management and data access. I had trouble finding time to work on this assignment because I have a full semester and this project required a lot of time (I spent probably around 15 hours on this project). This is my fault because I thought with all of the tools that we were provided with, that it would not take as much time as it actually did. If I could do this all over, I would have started this assignment immediately and set aside certain times per week that I would work on it. Data access was also a challenge for me because I wanted to be able to allow the user to choose their data points, but it took me a while to figure out how to make all of the data accessible to the user in the dropdowns.

